© 2026 S&P Global
S&P Global Japan Composite PMI Output
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
35
40
45
50
55
60
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Comment
March 2026
Sources: S&P Global PMI, Cabinet Office Japan via S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
© 2026 S&P Global.
Gross domestic product
% yr/yrIndex, sa, >50 = growth m/m
Flash Japan Composite PMI Output Index: 52.5 
(February: 53.9)
Flash Japan Services PMI Business Activity Index: 
52.8 (February: 53.8)
Flash Japan Manufacturing PMI: 51.4 (February: 
53.0)
Flash Japan Manufacturing PMI Output Index: 51.8 
(February: 54.2)
Japan's private sector growth slows in March
Latest S&P Global Flash PMI® data signalled softer 
expansions in both manufacturing and service sector activity 
in Japan in March, leading to the slowest rise in overall 
private sector output for three months. At the same time, 
Japanese firms recorded weaker increases in new orders and 
employment, while confidence around the year-ahead slipped 
to the lowest for nearly a year amid concerns around the war 
in the Middle East. The latter was reportedly a key driver of 
inflation, with input costs rising to the greatest extent for 11 
months in March. 
At 52.5 at the end of the first quarter, the headline seasonally 
adjusted S&P Global Flash Japan PMI Composite Output 
Index fell from a 33-month high of 53.9 in February to signal 
a slower, but still solid expansion of Japanese private sector 
activity. The headline index has now posted in growth territory 
in each month for the past year, though the latest reading was 
the lowest recorded since last December. Data broken down 
by sector revealed that both manufacturing and service sector 
activity rose at softer rates. 
The slowdown in overall growth momentum coincided with a 
weaker increase in overall new business. The latest upturn in 
composite new work was marginal and the weakest in three 
months. Underlying data showed that rates of new order 
growth slowed notably across both the manufacturing and 
service sectors, with the latter recording the softest upturn in 
sales since last October. Similarly, total new export business 
expanded at a modest rate that was the weakest seen over 
the current three-month period of growth. This reflected a 
softer rise in overseas demand for goods, as foreign demand 
for services increased at a slightly faster (but still marginal) 
pace. 
Japanese companies raised their staffing levels again in 
March, stretching the current period of job creation to two-
and-a-half years. That said, the rate of payroll growth was the 
slowest recorded in four months, with both manufacturers 
and services companies hiring additional workers at a reduced 
Annabel Fiddes, Economics Associate Director at S&P 
Global Market Intelligence: 
“After having picked up speed in the opening two months 
of 2026, growth momentum across Japan's private sector 
cooled in March. Overall business activity, new orders 
and employment all expanded at weaker rates, with 
underlying data indicating that growth trajectories slowed 
across both manufacturing and service industries.
"The slowdown coincides with the recent outbreak of the 
war in the Middle East, which contributed to a sharp rise 
in input costs amid reports of supply chain difficulties and 
higher prices for fuel. A weak yen exchange rate and rising 
labour costs also contributed to the upturn in expenses, 
further adding to the squeeze on company margins.
"With so much uncertainty around the length and impact 
of the Middle East war, firms were less confident around 
future output. Optimism among services companies fell 
more notably than across the manufacturing sector, 
however, with the latter hoping that stronger global 
demand across key industries such as AI, defence and 
semiconductors will continue to drive growth in the 
months ahead." 
Data were collected 11-20 March 2026.
News Release
Embargoed until 0930 JST 24 March 2026 / 0030 UTC 24 March 2026 
S&P Global Flash Japan PMI®
S&P Global Flash Japan PMI®
© 2026 S&P Global
S&P Global
S&P Global (NYSE: SPGI) provides essential intelligence. We enable governments, businesses 
and individuals with the right data, expertise and connected technology so that they can 
make decisions with conviction. From helping our customers assess new investments 
to guiding them through ESG and energy transition across supply chains, we unlock new 
opportunities, solve challenges and accelerate progress for the world.
We are widely sought after by many of the world’s leading organizations to provide credit 
ratings, benchmarks, analytics and workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity and 
automotive markets. With every one of our offerings, we help the world’s leading organizations 
plan for tomorrow, today.
www.spglobal.com/marketintelligence/en/mi/products/pmi
PMI by S&P Global
Purchasing Managers’ Index™ (PMI®) surveys are now available for over 40 countries and also 
for key regions including the eurozone. They are the most closely watched business surveys 
in the world, favoured by central banks, financial markets and business decision makers for 
their ability to provide up-to-date, accurate and often unique monthly indicators of economic 
trends.
www.spglobal.com
Disclaimer
The intellectual property rights to the data provided herein are owned by or licensed to S&P Global and/or its affiliates. Any unauthorised use, including but not limited to copying, distributing, 
transmitting or otherwise of any data appearing is not permitted without S&P Global’s prior consent. S&P Global shall not have any liability, duty or obligation for or relating to the content or 
information (“Data”) contained herein, any errors, inaccuracies, omissions or delays in the Data, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. In no event shall S&P Global be liable for any special, 
incidental, or consequential damages, arising out of the use of the Data. Purchasing Managers’ Index™ and PMI® are either trade marks or registered trade marks of S&P Global Inc or licensed to 
S&P Global Inc and/or its affiliates.
This Content was published by S&P Global Market Intelligence and not by S&P Global Ratings, which is a separately managed division of S&P Global. Reproduction of any information, data or 
material, including ratings (“Content”) in any form is prohibited except with the prior written permission of the relevant party. Such party, its affiliates and suppliers (“Content Providers”) do not 
guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, completeness, timeliness or availability of any Content and are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, or 
for the results obtained from the use of such Content.  In no event shall Content Providers be liable for any damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or lost profit and 
opportunity costs) in connection with any use of the Content.
If you prefer not to receive news releases from S&P Global, please email  
press.mi@spglobal.com. To read our privacy policy, click here.
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Source: S&P Global PMI. ©2026 S&P Global.
Services PMI Business Activity Manufacturing PMI Output
Index, sa, >50 = growth m/m
Flash data are calculated from around 80-90% of total responses and are intended to provide 
an accurate early indication of the final data. Since flash data were first processed, the 
average differences between final and flash index values for the headline indices are:
Composite Output Index = 0. 1 (absolute difference 0.5)
Services Business Activity Index = 0.2 (absolute difference 0.7)
Manufacturing PMI = 0. 1 (absolute difference 0.3)
S&P Global do not revise underlying survey data after first publication, but seasonal 
adjustment factors may be revised from time to time as appropriate which will affect the 
seasonally adjusted data series. Historical data relating to the underlying (unadjusted) 
numbers, first published seasonally adjusted