© 2026 S&P Global
S&P Global Japan Services PMI®
News Release
Embargoed until 0930 JST 3 September 2026 / 0030 UTC 3 September 2026
S&P Global Japan Services PMI 
Business Activity
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Sources: S&P Global PMI, Cabinet Office Japan via S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
© 2026 S&P Global.
Data were collected 6-25 August 2026.
Comment
August 2026
Index, sa, >50 = growth m/m %yr/yr
Household Services 
Expenditure
Solid rise in service sector output as sales growth picks 
up 
Output charges increase at second-steepest rate on 
record amid further sharp rise in costs
Staffing levels expand at slowest rate in a year
Business activity growth hits five-month high, but sharp cost 
pressures drive near-record increase in output charges
Japanese service providers signalled stronger increases in both 
business activity and new work during August, according to 
latest PMI® survey data. However, input cost inflation remained 
substantial, leading firms to raise their output prices at the 
second-sharpest pace on record.
Employment growth across the service sector meanwhile eased 
for the second straight month and backlogs of work accumulated 
only slightly. Business confidence did pick up from July, but 
remained among the lowest seen in recent years. 
The S&P Global Japan Services PMI is compiled by S&P Global 
from survey responses from a panel of around 400 service sector 
companies. The sectors covered include consumer (excluding 
retail), transport, information, communication, finance, 
insurance, real estate and business services.
The headline figure is the Services Business Activity Index, which 
tracks changes in the volume of business activity compared with 
one month previously. A reading above 50.0 indicates an overall 
increase compared to the previous month, and below 50.0 an 
overall decrease.
The headline index rose from 51.2 in July to 52.5 in August, 
posting in expansion territory for the third month in a row. 
Notably, the rate of growth was the strongest recorded since 
March. Greater amounts of new work, public sector projects 
and a higher volume of client enquiries had supported the latest 
upturn in activity, according to panellists.
Total new order growth picked up from July's 25-month low in 
August, rising at a rate that was slightly stronger than the average 
seen in 2026 so far. Underlying data suggested that the upturn 
was largely driven by firmer domestic demand, as new export 
business continued to decline during August and at a sharp pace. 
Hiring activity across the service sector meanwhile remained 
subdued. Moreover, the rate of job creation was the slowest 
seen in a year and only marginal. While some firms added to 
their payrolls to support higher levels of business activity, 
others noted that the non-replacement of voluntary leavers 
had dampened headcounts. Despite the softer upturn in staff 
numbers and stronger sales growth, outstanding business rose 
only slightly, with the rate of accumulation holding close to July's 
Annabel Fiddes, Economics Associate Director at S&P 
Global Market Intelligence: 
"The latest PMI data suggests that growth momentum 
picked up across Japan's service sector in August, with 
business activity rising at the fastest pace since March 
and new order growth improving from July's recent low. 
"However, staff recruitment remained muted, with 
employment rising at the slowest pace in a year, 
suggesting firms remain cautious despite higher 
workloads. 
"Combined with the manufacturing PMI survey results, 
which highlighted another sharp rise in factory output 
and new orders, the data suggest Japan's private sector 
experienced the strongest increase in output for six 
months in August. 
"Cost pressures remain a key area of concern for 
businesses, with input costs continuing to rise sharply 
across both monitored sectors despite rates of inflation 
easing from recent peaks. The war in the Middle East and 
associated supply-side disruption and price rises were 
partly linked to the upturn in expenses, along with a weak 
yen exchange rate. The sustained and sharp rise in costs 
led to the quickest rise in selling prices for goods and 
services since the composite data series began nearly two 
decades ago. This indicates that official inflation could 
rise further in the coming months and, alongside stronger 
growth, strengthens the case for another Bank of Japan 
interest rate hike."
S&P Global Japan Services PMI®
© 2026 S&P Global
S&P Global
S&P Global (NYSE: SPGI) provides essential intelligence. We enable governments, businesses 
and individuals with the right data, expertise and connected technology so that they can 
make decisions with conviction. From helping our customers assess new investments 
to guiding them through ESG and energy transition across supply chains, we unlock new 
opportunities, solve challenges and accelerate progress for the world.
We are widely sought after by many of the world’s leading organizations to provide credit 
ratings, benchmarks, analytics and workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity and 
automotive markets. With every one of our offerings, we help the world’s leading organizations 
plan for tomorrow, today.
www.spglobal.com/marketintelligence/en/mi/products/pmi
PMI by S&P Global
Purchasing Managers’ Index™ (PMI®) surveys are now available for over 40 countries and also 
for key regions including the eurozone. They are the most closely watched business surveys 
in the world, favoured by central banks, financial markets and business decision makers for 
their ability to provide up-to-date, accurate and often unique monthly indicators of economic 
trends.
www.spglobal.com
Disclaimer
The intellectual property rights to the data provided herein are owned by or licensed to S&P Global and/or its affiliates. Any unauthorised use, including but not limited to copying, distributing, 
transmitting or otherwise of any data appearing is not permitted without S&P Global’s prior consent. S&P Global shall not have any liability, duty or obligation for or relating to the content or 
information (“Data”) contained herein, any errors, inaccuracies, omissions or delays in the Data, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. In no event shall S&P Global be liable for any special, 
incidental, or consequential damages, arising out of the use of the Data. Purchasing Managers’ Index™ and PMI® are either trade marks or registered trade marks of S&P Global Inc or licensed to 
S&P Global Inc and/or its affiliates.
This Content was published by S&P Global Market Intelligence and not by S&P Global Ratings, which is a separately managed division of S&P Global. Reproduction of any information, data or 
material, including ratings (“Content”) in any form is prohibited except with the prior written permission of the relevant party. Such party, its affiliates and suppliers (“Content Providers”) do not 
guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, completeness, timeliness or availability of any Content and are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, or 
for the results obtained from the use of such Content.  In no event shall Content Providers be liable for any damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or lost profit and 
opportunity costs) in connection with any use of the Content.
Methodology
The S&P Global Japan Services PMI® is compiled by S&P Global from responses to questionnaires 
sent to a panel of around 400 service sector companies. The sectors covered include consumer 
(excluding retail), transport, information, communication, finance, insurance, real estate and 
business services. The panel is stratified by detailed sector and company workforce size, based on 
contributions to GDP . Data collection began in September 2007 .
Survey responses are collected in the second half of each month and indicate the direction 
of change compared to the previous month. A diffusion index is calculated for each survey 
variable. The index is the sum of the percentage of ‘higher’ responses and half the percentage of 
‘unchanged’ responses. The indices vary between 0 and 100, with a reading above 50 indicating an 
overall increase compared to the previous month, and below 50 an overall decrease. The indices 
are then seasonally adjusted. 
The headline figure is the Services Business Activity Index. This is a diffusion index calculated from 
a question that asks for changes in the volume of business activity compared with one month 
previously. The Services Business Activity Index is comparable to the Manufacturing Output Index. 
It may be referred to as the ‘Services PMI’ but is not comparable with the headline manufacturing 
PMI figure. 
The Composite Output Index is a weighted average of the Manufacturing Output Index and the 
Services Business Activity Index. The weights reflect the relative size of the manufacturing and 
service sectors according to official GDP data. The Composite Output Index may be referred to as 
the ‘Composite PMI’ but is not comparable with the headline manufacturing PMI figure. 
Underlying survey data are not revised after publication, but seasonal adjustment factors may be 
revised from time to time as appropriate which will affect the seasonally adjusted data series.
For further information on the PMI survey methodology, please contact 
economics@spglobal.com.
If you prefer not to receive news releases from S&P Global, please email  
press.mi@spglobal.com. To read our privacy policy, click here.
-15
-12
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Gross domestic product
Index, sa, >50 = growth m/m
Japan Composite PMI Output
% yr/yr
Sources: S&P Global PMI, Cabinet Office Japan via S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
© 2026 S&P Global.
17-month low. 
Japanese services companies signalled a slightly slower but 
still substantial rise in costs during August, which was linked 
to a generally strong inflationary environment. The sustained 
and sharp rise in input prices led firms to raise their own output 
charges again in August. Moreover, the rate of selling price 
inflation was the second-quickest since the survey began in 
late-2007, behind only April 2014 which was driven by a national 
consumption tax hike. 
Firms expressed slightly stronger optimism towards the one-year 
outlook for activity in August. Upbeat forecasts were linked 
to planned company expansions, new services, AI-related 
efficiency gains and expectations of greater customer numbers. 
Contact
Annabel Fiddes  
Economics Associate Director  
S&P Global Market Intelligence  
T: +44-1491-461-010  
annabel.fiddes@spglobal.com
Eri Amano
APAC Senior Communications Manager
+81 (0) 80 3714 7658
eri.amano@spglobal.com
press.mi@spglobal.com
Selling prices across Japan increase at record pace in August
The S&P Global Japan Composite Output Index rose from 52.7 in 
July to 53.5 in August, signalling an expansion of business activity 
across Japan for the seventeenth month in a row. Notably, the 
rate of growth was the steepest recorded since before the 
outbreak of war in the Middle East in February. Although the 
expansion continued to be led by the manufacturing industry, 
which saw another sharp upturn in output, service sector growth 
improved in August.
Composite new business also rose at a solid and accelerated 
pace, with the upturn among the quickest seen over the past 
three years. Overall employment across Japan meanwhile 
continued to rise modestly amid a further rise in outstanding 
business. Prices data showed another sharp increase in costs 
faced by Japanese manufacturers and service providers, despite 
the rate of inflation slipping to the lowest since March. At the 
same time, selling prices at the composite level rose at the 
steepest rate since the series began in late-2007. 
S&P Global Japan Composite PMI®