© 2026 S&P Global
S&P Global Australia Composite PMI 
Output
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
20
30
40
50
60
70
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Comment
July 2026
Sources: S&P Global PMI, Australian Bureau of Statistics via S&P Global Market Intelligence.  
© 2026 S&P Global.
Gross domestic 
product
% qr/qrIndex, sa, >50 = growth m/mFlash Australia Composite PMI Output Index: 52.6  
(Jun: 50.4)
Flash Australia Services PMI Business Activity Index: 
53.0 (Jun: 50.5)
Flash Australia Manufacturing PMI: 51.7 (Jun: 51.5)
Flash Australia Manufacturing PMI Output Index: 49.9 
(Jun: 49.5)
Australian private sector gains momentum amid renewed 
demand growth and softer cost pressures
The Australian private sector enjoyed its first increase in new 
business in five months in July, according to 'flash' PMI® data 
from S&P Global. Improved demand conditions underpinned 
a stronger expansion in output, led to upgraded recruitment 
activity and enabled greater protection of profit margins. In 
fact, the gap between the input costs and output prices indices 
lessened amid a combination of softer cost inflation and a 
faster rise in charges. 
However, amid reports of uncertainty across the market, 
business sentiment among Australian private sector firms 
remained subdued in July. The level of confidence was up only 
slightly from June’s more than two-and-a-half year low. 
Up from 50.4 in June, the headline seasonally adjusted S&P 
Global Flash Australia PMI® Composite Output Index posted 
at 52.6 in July, signalling a second successive month of growth 
in private sector output. The latest reading was not only the 
highest since the start of the year, but also consistent with a 
moderate expansion and one that was stronger than the series 
average. 
Growth across the Australian private sector remained centred 
on the service economy, where activity increased at the fastest 
rate since January. Although manufacturing output was broadly 
unchanged from June, this also represented the best outcome 
since the start of 2026. 
July data indicated a fresh injection of new work across the 
Australian private sector, ending a four-month run of decline 
that was the longest since the start of 2024. The expansion was 
broad-based across both monitored sectors and moderate in 
nature. Panellists reported a pick-up in demand conditions, 
a slight improvement in market confidence and new client 
wins. However, there was persistent weakness in international 
demand, as signalled by a stronger fall in export sales. 
Greater workloads led to a rise in backlogged orders for the first 
time in five months, albeit one that was only slight in nature. 
This pressure on capacity encouraged greater hiring activity 
Eleanor Dennison, Economist at S&P Global Market 
Intelligence said: 
"The latest set of 'flash' PMI data will provide some 
comfort that things are moving in the right direction 
for Australian businesses. Demand has shown signs 
of recovery, with new orders rising for the first time in 
five months. July data showed the private sector to 
be boosted by domestic demand given a deeper fall in 
sales to international customers.
"Output maintained its trend of expansion, but unlike 
that of new orders which was broad-based by sector, 
growth in activity was solely supported by the services 
economy. The manufacturing sector did show greater 
signs of stabilisation, however.
"There was more positive news with respect to prices, 
with cost pressures continuing to ease off. More 
stabilit